this insensitive rejecting and intrusive
quality of interaction creates a
negative model of others and therefore
high levels of attachment avoidance
these children learn that their
attachment seeking behaviors are likely
to be rejected and instead of expressing
their attachment needs these children
learn to deactivate their attachment
system through something called
displacement they've simply learned not
to express their attachment needs openly
they're being taught to ignore them and
over time this form of Regulation
becomes autonomic and unconscious
resulting in the avoidant attachment
patterns that we see in adults both
avoidant children and pathological
narcissists appear to have experienced
an early emotionally invalidating
environment in fact when describing the
early experiences of narcissistic
patients Otto kernberg wrote quote
chronically cold parental figures with
covert but intense aggression is a very
frequent feature of the background of
these patients end quote